.Dd July 31, 2006
.Dt bruteblock 8
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME 
.Nm bruteblock
.Nd utility to block bruteforce attacks
.Sh SYNOPSIS 
.Nm bruteblock
.Op Fl f Ar configfile
.Op Fl h
.Nm bruteblockd Fl t Ar table
.Op Fl s Ar sleep
.Op Fl p Ar pidfile
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION 
Bruteblock allows system administrators to block various bruteforce
attacks on UNIX services. The program analyzes system logs and adds
attacker's IP address into ipfw2 table effectively blocking them.
Addresses are automatically removed from the table after specified
amount of time. Bruteblock uses regular expressions to parse logs,
which provides flexibility allowing it to be used with almost any
network service. Bruteblock is written in pure C, doesn't use any
external programs and work with ipfw2 tables via raw sockets API.
.Pp
Bruteblock consists of two binaries: 
.Em bruteblock
and 
.Em bruteblockd .
.Pp
.Ss bruteblock
.Em bruteblock
is intended to be used in
.Pa /etc/syslog.conf
to pipe
logs into. It does log analysis and adds attacker IP's into ipfw2
table. Along with address and mask, every entry in ipfw2 table has
.Em value
field, which is used by bruteblock to store expiration time as 32
bit UNIX timestamp.
.Pp
The following command line options are available for bruteblock:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f Ar configfile
Specify path to config file
.It Fl h
Display help
.El
.Ss bruteblockd
.Em bruteblock
is a daemon, which checks ipfw2 table periodically and removes
expired entries.
.Pp
The following command line options are available for bruteblockd:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl t Ar table
Specify numer of ipfw2 table
.It Fl s Ar sleep
Specify table check interval
.It Fl p Ar pidfile
Specify location of the pid file
.It Fl f
Run the daemon in the foreground (do not daemonize)
.It Fl h
Display help
.El
.Pp
Such design allows to avoid any IPC use and to store entries for
different services in one table. Also makes it is easy for the
administrator to get list of currently blocked addresses and edit
the list if needed so.
.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
Configuration file for bruteblock utility allows you to set following
values:
.Bl -tag -width indent 
.It regexp
regular expression in perl-compatible format that is used to extract
failed password attempts from log files.
.It max_count, within_time
defines time interval and maximum number of failed password attempts
during that interval. If the number is exceeded by specific IP,
that IP is blocked.
.It reset_ip
time-to-live of table entry. When it expires, address is removed from
the table, thus being unblocked.
.It ipfw2_table_no
number of ipfw2 table to add bad IPs to. Must match -t parameter
of bruteblockd.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE (SSH)
First, you need to establish log processing to determine attacker's
IPs and add them to ipfw2 table.
Edit
.Pa /etc/syslog.conf
and add the following entry:
.Bd -literal
auth.info;authpriv.info	| exec /usr/local/sbin/bruteblock -f /usr/local/etc/bruteblock/ssh.conf
.Ed
.Pp
then restart syslogd.
.Pp
Next, you'll want to setup periodical cleanup of ipfw2 table.
Add following lines to
.Pa /etc/rc.conf :
.Bd -literal
bruteblockd_enable="YES"
bruteblockd_table="1"
bruteblockd_flags="-s 5"
.Ed
.Pp
don't forget to change table number and sleep interval to match your needs.
.Pp
Now launch bruteblockd: /usr/local/etc/rc.d/bruteblockd.sh start
.Pp
Finally, setup your ipfw to block addresses contained in the table:
.Bd -literal
ipfw add 100 deny ip from me to table\\(1\\)
ipfw add 100 deny ip from table\\(1\\) to me
.Ed
.Pp
you may want to add these lines to you
.Pa /etc/rc.firewall .
.Sh SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 
Bruteblock requires FreeBSD 5.3 and above (tested on FreeBSD 5.3,
5.4, 6.1) with ipfw2 firewall.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr ipfw 8 ,
.Xr rc.conf 5 ,
.Xr syslog.conf 5
.Sh AUTHOR 
.An Alex Samorukov Aq samm@os2.kiev.ua ,
.Ad http://samm.kiev.ua/bruteblock/
